So we have the image picker.
Let's make sure we can upload it.
And for this, if you Google for Firebase Flutter Storage, you should find the Firebase Storage flatter
package.
And we already saw some Flutter Firebase packages.
We saw the cloud firestorm package and the firebase off package.
Cloud Firestorm helped us with the Firestorm database.
Firebase Off helped us with Firebase Authentication and Firebase Storage will help us with the Firebase
Cloud Storage.
Now, installing it again is fairly trivial.
We just copied this dependency here and then go to our perspective YAML file and add it.
Now.
We already saw in the past that adding new projects typically doesn't work on the already running application.
So we'll go ahead and close it and restart it at this point already so that later it hopefully works.
Now with that, we added Firebase Storage and I want to upload the image.
Whenever the user picked an image filled out the rest of the off form and pressed this submit button
we have in the off form.
So therefore we need to do one main thing.
We need to make sure that the PICT user image which we're managing in this user image picker widget
is forwarded, is passed to the off forum because that's where we ultimately collect all entered data
and then again forwarded to the off screen.
In the end, with help of that submit fan property, which we manage in the forum, that's how we get
all our auth data to the off screen in the end.
So we need to get the image to the auth form so that from thereon we can forward it to the off screen.
Now to get the PICT image to the auth form, we can use the same approach we've used over and over.
Throughout this course.
We add a property to the user image picker widget and that property will be a function which we can
call from inside this widget, which we will get passed from outside the widget though.
So here we add a new property, a new final property, which will be of type function, which I'll name.
Image.
Pic fn.
The name is up to you though.
This function will not return anything but from an argument.
From a parameter perspective.
It will actually receive that pict image.
It will receive a file.
Pict image as an argument.
And now we add the constructor of the user image picker.
And there we make it clear that we expect to get a pointer at such a function as an argument, and we
then bind this function we get as an argument to this image.
Pick FN property.
And since this is bound and since we now have this property, we can call this function whenever an
image was picked to let the surrounding forum know about the image.
So here, besides setting our state to preview the image, I will also call widget.
Image pic fn and forward that picked image file.
And now we need to go to the auth forum, which is where we in the end use our user image picker and
pass such a function into that widget.
So for that, we first of all need to define a new function here which doesn't return anything, which
I'll name.
Pict image or whatever you want to name it, which gets that image, which is of type file.
And that file type, as you learned, needs to be imported from Dart IO.
So make sure you add this dart io import here.
And then here.
We will receive that file and I want to store it in a variable here.
So a user image file.
That's my variable and that will be off type file.
And I simply set user image file equal to the image argument we're receiving here.
So that stores the image that is picked in the user image picker in that property of the off form state
so that we have it available once we try to submit this form.
Because when we do try to submit here, I want to check if the form is valid and if we have a user image
file.
So if that is unequal to null because if it would be equal to null, no image was picked yet.
And actually, I will not do this here in this step.
Instead, I'll add another step here where I check if.
User image file is equal to null maybe, which means the user did not pick an image.
In this case, we can return here to avoid that.
The other part here gets executed because I don't want to submit the form.
I don't want to continue if no image was picked, and instead we might want to show an error to the
user.
We might want to let the user know about the fact that we didn't find a valid image.
And we could use the good old snack bar for this with scaffold off context.
And here we can use this context, show snack bar and create a snack bar.
In here.
Where the content is simply a text widget where we say, Please pick an image.
All to note that we of course only care about the image if we are in sign up mode.
So we should add something to the effect.
We should make sure whether we have image or not, and if we're not in log in mode because if we would
be in log in mode, we don't care about the image, we only care about it if we're not in log in mode,
if we are signing up, but if we are signing up, we should validate this.
We should check if we have an image and then we should show an error.
If we have no image, we can also set the background color here to theme off context error color to
color that snack bar appropriately so with that, we should avoid that an invalid form gets submitted.
Now of course, one missing piece is still that we wire up this pict image function to our user image
picker.
So we should forward that pict image function to that user image picker.
So pass it as a argument to that constructor here and don't add parentheses here because indeed we just
want to pass a pointer to that function to use our image picker.
So with that we don't have the upload yet, but the rest should be wired up.
And if I try to create a new account.
And I enter, let's say, a valid email address.
And everything is valid here and I press sign up.
I do get that.
Please pick an image error here because I indeed have no image and only if I do pick an image I should
be able to submit this.
So let's give this a try.
Now you'll see that works.
But of course it works without actually uploading that image.
And that's not our goal here.
The image should be uploaded.
So let's now work on the actual upload functionality.